this video is brought to you by Osmocote
the planters plant foot hi I'm Ryan Lee
from Indiana University and today I have
a gardening tip about those weedy vines
so I've got an example here of an
ornamental Morning Glory
you you know plant this on your
trellises and it's really great until it
gets out of control or until you want to
replace it with something else and then
it becomes a weed unfortunately most of
the time when we see a weedy vine in our
Gardens we tend to call it Morning Glory
everything gets the same name and yet
there are quite a few different we
Divine's that we have to to deal with
and so we're gonna identify those today
by looking around the greenhouse this is
tall Morning Glory it's an annual you
see that again distinct heart shaped
leaf it again has a has a flower that
looks very similar to the the ornamental
Morning Glory this may in fact be an
escaped version of a ornamental Morning
Glory the opposite might be true as well
this may be the progenitor of our
ornamental morning glories nevertheless
this is called tall Morning Glory
it's an annual it is in the morning
glory family again related to the
ornamental Morning Glory this is ivy
leaf Morning Glory again it's an annual
you can see the distinct Morning Glory
like flowers the difference here is this
ivy leaf it has very deep lobes so you
can get hybrids between an ivy leaf
Morning Glory and a tall Morning Glory
and you will see variations of the depth
of these lobes okay so while this one
looks very similar to the morning
glories that I just described this is a
different plant altogether still in the
morning glory family
however the leaves are longer they're
more Arrowhead shaped and they come to a
very sharp point in the back this is
called hedge bindweed hedge bindweed is
a perennial and it can develop very
strong very deep tap roots so getting
rid of this out of your getting getting
this out of your garden will require you
to remove that very large tap root or
kill it with a systemic herbicide like
glyphosate
okay so again another another weedy vine
that looks very similar to the hedge
bindweed and field bindweed is this but
this again is not a not in the morning
glory family in fact this is in the
smartweed family this is called wild
buckwheat the the the two
characteristics that really distinguish
this is one its flowers are completely
different from a Morning Glory that it
does not have that funnel form flower
the flowers are much smaller oftentimes
pink to white small balls of flower the
other thing is a characteristic of the
smartweed family and that is a small
ring of tissue a membranous tissue that
surrounds kind of claps around the stem
right where the petal attaches that's
called an o crea and it's it's a
characteristic of the smartweed family
and it's how you can distinguish this as
being wild buckwheat while this weed
looks very similar to the weeds in the
morning glory family that we just looked
at this one is in a completely different
family this is called honey vine
milkweed it's in the milkweed family the
distinction is that the leaves come off
or arranged oppositely so they're too
ranked at every node there is two leaves
coming off they have a heart shaped leaf
again it looks very similar to a Morning
Glory however it is a completely
different species this is a perennial
milkweed called
honey vine milkweed it growing up this
wall is what looks very similar to
poison ivy poison ivy has three leaves
this has five leaves this is called
Virginia creeper so again a very woody
very woody vine very sturdy a perennial
you often see it growing up the sides of
buildings like this or or trees but it's
not poison ivy this is the one that I
don't want to touch this looks very
similar to a Virginia creeper however
this one has three leaves this is poison
ivy
poison ivy is a perennial woody stem
very Hardy very difficult to get rid of
this has been a gardening tip about weed
evine identification
I'm Ryan Lee from Indiana University